docs(guides): add autostart guide (#3287)
LizardByte/Sunshine: docs/guides.md

I also only tested this on an Artix runit init system on LAN.
I didn't have to do anything special with pulseaudio (pipewire untested).

> Edit by MidwesternRodent on 10/10/2024: Pipewire does not seem to work when sunshine is started over an SSH session.

Author: Personally, I don't think my modifications to that guide warrant attribution on the document header so if it's all the same I'd prefer it to just be left to Eric Dong as they did all the work on that. I agree it's much cleaner without the edit notice though, and in retrospect I don't think a modification that minor (or the visudo changes) is really putting my words in their mouth.

@e-dong - Sorry for the ping but just wanted to give you heads up on some incredibly minor changes I'm suggesting to your guide for remote SSH setup of sunshine and give you an opportunity to provide some input if you'd like. Since your name's on the guide, I just want to make sure I don't speak for you.

Just calling out some problems with pipewire audio when sunshine is started over SSH, and directing people to the guide this PR is about if they want to address them. I also made some tweaks to the sudoers.d session to direct people to use visudo rather than echoing to the sudoers file, but that's a semantics / best practice disagreement I'd be happy to drop if you'd prefer to keep the original wording.

> Edit by MidwesternRodent on 10/10/2024: Pipewire does not seem to work when sunshine is started over an SSH session.

Reviewer: Sounds fine to me.

Also, as a heads up... I'm hoping to create a blog (powered by jekyll and gh-pages) soonish. Once that's ready these guides will probably be migrated there. I don't have timing on that though, so this should continue here for now.

Remote SSH Headless setups. If you are using AMD hardware, let me know if you find something or feel free to add it to
this guide.
3. I haven't (yet) found a way to disable sleep on the login screen, so if you wait too long after starting your PC,
the display may go to sleep and moonlight will have trouble connecting. Shutting down and using WOL works great
though.

@attention{This is definitely safer than enabling auto-login directly, especially for a dual-use PC that is not only
streamed via moonlight, but is also used as a standard desktop. *However* I do not know the implications of having an
always running SSH client to the localhost on the same machine. It may be possible for someone with significant
knowledge and physical access to the machine to compromise your user account due to this always-running SSH session.
However, that's better than just having the desktop always available, or opening up SSH even just your LAN since this
guide specifically disables non-localhost connections, so I believe this is safer to use than auto-login for general
users. As always, your [threat model](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Threat_model) may vary.}

#### Prerequisites

> Go follow Eric Dong's guide for Remote SSH Headless Setup. Specifically these sections need to be completed and
> they've written an excellent guide which I do not feel the need to rehash here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In [Remote SSH Headless Setup](#remote-ssh-headless-setup) complete the following sections.
```

> [Static IP Setup](https://docs.lizardbyte.dev/projects/sunshine/en/latest/about/guides/linux/headless_ssh.html#static-ip-setup)
> [SSH Server Setup](https://docs.lizardbyte.dev/projects/sunshine/en/latest/about/guides/linux/headless_ssh.html#ssh-server-setup)
> [Virtual Display Setup](https://docs.lizardbyte.dev/projects/sunshine/en/latest/about/guides/linux/headless_ssh.html#virtual-display-setup) (if desired and running an Nvidia GPU)
> [Uinput Permissions Workaround](https://docs.lizardbyte.dev/projects/sunshine/en/latest/about/guides/linux/headless_ssh.html#uinput-permissions-workaround) (needed for keyboard/mouse to work on the login screen)
> [Stream Launcher Script](https://docs.lizardbyte.dev/projects/sunshine/en/latest/about/guides/linux/headless_ssh.html#stream-launcher-script) (Will be called by our SSH client to start sunshine)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [Static IP Setup](#static-ip-setup)
2. [SSH Server Setup](#ssh-server-setup)
3. [Virtual Display Setup](#virtual-display-setup)
4. [Uinput Permissions Workaround](#uinput-permissions-workaround)
5. [Stream Launcher Script](#stream-launcher-script)
```

These shorter versions will work no matter which version of the docs someone is viewing.

@note{On a default Debian 12 install using KDE Plasma, you are using the Simple Desktop Display Manager (SDDM).
Even if you are logging in to a wayland session, SDDM by default starts with an xorg session, so this script

> does not need to be modified if you primarily use a wayland session (the default) when you login}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
does not need to be modified if you primarily use a wayland session (the default) when you login.}
```

#### Instructions

##### Enable Wake on LAN

> Wake on LAN (WOL) will allow you to send a magic packet to turn your PC on remotely. This is handled automatically by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Wake on LAN (WoL) will allow you to send a magic packet to turn your PC on remotely. This is handled automatically by
```

Moonlight's "send wake on lan" option in the app but you do need to enable it on your host machine first. The
[instructions on the debian.org](https://wiki.debian.org/WakeOnLan#Enabling_WOL) site are a little hard to parse, so
I've simplified them below.

@note{this may not work on all deb based distributions. If you know of a better way for POP OS, Ubuntu, or another
debian based distro please feel free to edit the guide yourself, or let me know.}

First, find the name of your ethernet interface.

```bash
ip link show
```

When I run this command, these are the results I receive
```

> rodent@midwest:/etc/network/if-up.d$ ip link show  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Since the command is right about I don't think it's needed here.

1: lo: <LOOPBACK,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 65536 qdisc noqueue state UNKNOWN mode DEFAULT group default qlen 1000  
   link/loopback 00:00:00:00:00:00 brd 00:00:00:00:00:00  
2: enp117s0: <BROADCAST,MULTICAST,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 1500 qdisc fq_codel state UP mode DEFAULT group default qlen 1000  
   link/ether 9c:6b:00:59:33:c1 brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff
```

We can ignore the loopback interface, and I can see my ethernet interface is called `enp117s0`. You might see
wireless interfaces here as well but they can also be ignored.

@note{If your PC is only connected via wifi, it is still technically possible to get this working, but it is outside

> the scope of this guide and requires more networking knowledge and a wifi chip that supports WOL. If this is your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the scope of this guide and requires more networking knowledge and a wifi chip that supports WoL. If this is your
```

first foray into linux, I'd recommend just getting a cable.}

> Now I can install ethtool and modify my interface to allow wake on lan. For your use, replace enp117s0 with whatever

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now I can install ethtool and modify my interface to allow Wake on LAN. For your use, replace `enp117s0` with whatever
```

the name of your ethernet interface is from the command `ip link show`

``` bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt install ethtool
sudo ethtool -s enp117s0 wol g
```

> ##### SSH Client Setup

Reviewer: ```suggestion

##### SSH Client Setup
```

To start, we need to install an SSH client on our machine if this not already done. Open a terminal and enter the

> following command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
following commands.
```

```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt install openssh-client
```

Next we need to generate the keys we will use to connect to our SSH session. This is as simple as running the
following in a terminal:

```bash
ssh-keygen
```

> and simply pressing enter through the default options. This will place a file called id_rsa and id_rsa.pub
> in the hidden folder ~/.ssh/. This is the default key used when this user initiates an SSH session.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and simply pressing enter through the default options. This will place a file called `id_rsa` and `id_rsa.pub`
in the hidden folder `~/.ssh/`. This is the default key used when this user initiates an SSH session.
```

> Next, we'll copy that public key to the authorized_users file in the ~/.ssh/ directory. These are the public keys

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, we'll copy that public key to the `~/.ssh/authorized_users` file. These are the public keys
```

allowed to access this machine over SSH, and will allow us to establish an SSH connection with this user
to the localhost.

```bash
cat ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub >> ~/.ssh/authorized_keys 
```

> @tip{If you also want any other machines (e.g. a laptop or steamdeck) to connect to your machine remotely over ssh,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
@tip{If you also want any other machines (e.g. a laptop or Steam Deck) to connect to your machine remotely over ssh,
```

> be sure to generate a pubkey on that machine and append it to the authorized_keys file like we did above.)}
> ###### SSH Server Modifications

Reviewer: ```suggestion
be sure to generate a pubkey on that machine and append it to the authorized_keys file like we did above.}

###### SSH Server Modifications
```

> We'll want to make a few modification to the SSH server on the sunshine host, both for convenience and security.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We'll want to make a few modification to the SSH server on the Sunshine host, both for convenience and security.
```

> Modify /etc/ssh/sshd_config with the following changes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Modify `/etc/ssh/sshd_config` with the following changes:
```

> @tabs{
>   @tab{nano | ```bash
>     sudo nano /etc/ssh/sshd_config
>     ```}
>   @tab{vim | ```bash
>     sudo vi /etc/ssh/sshd_config
>     ```}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
@tabs{
  @tab{nano | ```bash
    sudo nano /etc/ssh/sshd_config
    ```}
  @tab{vim | ```bash
    sudo vi /etc/ssh/sshd_config
    ```}
}
```

Find the line with `PasswordAuthentication` and make sure it is set to `no` (removed the `#` if present.
Then find the line `PubkeyAuthentication` and make sure it is set to `yes` and remove the `#` from the beginning
if present. When you're done you should have these two lines in your config somewhere.

```
PubkeyAuthentication yes
PasswordAuthentication no
```

@tip{Using publickey encryption for SSH connections significantly increases your protection against brute force
attacks, and protects you against a rogue machine pretending to be your SSH server and stealing your password.}

The next step is optional, but if you do not plan on connecting to your computer remotely via ssh and only have
installed SSH for the purposes of using Sunshine, it's a good idea to disable listening for remote SSH connections.
Do this by changing the following lines near the top of your sshd config:

```
#ListenAddress 0.0.0.0  
#ListenAddress ::
```

To the following:

```
ListenAddress 127.0.0.1
ListenAddress ::1
```

This will only allow SSH connections coming from your computer itself.

> @tip{on some distributions, the maintainers have added some files in /etc/ssh/sshd_config.d/ which is pulled into
> your sshd_config. These modifications can conflict with what we've just done. If you have any files in
> /etc/ssh/sshd_config.d/, make sure they do not include any of the changes we've just made or you will experience
> problems.}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
@tip{on some distributions, the maintainers have added some files in `/etc/ssh/sshd_config.d/` which is pulled into
your sshd_config. These modifications can conflict with what we've just done. If you have any files in
`/etc/ssh/sshd_config.d/`, make sure they do not include any of the changes we've just made or you will experience
problems.}
```

###### Quick Test and Accept Host Authenticity.

> Now that that's over with, let's reboot the machine and try to connect! Accept any warnings about the unidentified

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, let's reboot the machine and try to connect! Accept any warnings about the unidentified
```

I think the double "that" is perfectly acceptable grammar wise, but might be confusing or distracting. https://english.stackexchange.com/questions/3418/how-do-you-handle-that-that-the-double-that-problem

Author: Absolutely. I try to eliminate it any chance I can, I think this guide is showing I need to practice my proofreading a little bit more.

Thank you, these are all excellent edits.

Reviewer: No worries! I think most of the suggestions were the same couple of changes in many places. Capitalization of Sunshine/Moonlight (wherever it's not a CLI command), standardization of the WoL acronym, and the missing `}` at the end of the tab sections were the majority of the comments if I remember correctly.

host at this time, you'll never see those appear again unless something changes with your setup.

``` bash
ssh $(whoami)@localhost
```

You should see a new login prompt for the machine you're already on, and when you type `exit` you should just see

```bash
logout
Connection to localhost closed.
```

##### Run sunshine-setup on boot over SSH

Thanks to [this comment from Gavin Haynes on Unix Stack exchange](https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/669389/how-do-i-get-an-ssh-command-to-run-on-boot/669476#669476),
we can establish an SSH connection on boot to run the sunshine-setup script via a systemd service.

###### Disable the sunshine services included from the default installation

These service files are sometimes overwritten when updating sunshine with the .deb.
So we'll be making new ones and disabling the included service files for our purposes.

```
sudo sytstemctl disable sunshine
systemctl --user disable sunshine
```

> @note:{In order to disable the user service, you must be logged in to the graphical desktop environment and run the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
@note{In order to disable the user service, you must be logged in to the graphical desktop environment and run the
```

command from a GUI terminal, and you'll also likely need to approve a polkit request (a graphical popup that asks
for your password). Trying to disable the user service without being signed in to the graphical environment is a
recipe for pain.}

###### Create the autossh-sunshine-start script

> @tabs{
>   @tab{nano | ```bash
>     sudo nano /usr/local/bin/autossh-sunshine-start
>     ```}
>   @tab{vim | ```bash
>     sudo vi /usr/local/bin/autossh-sunshine-start
>     ```}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
@tabs{
  @tab{nano | ```bash
    sudo nano /usr/local/bin/autossh-sunshine-start
    ```}
  @tab{vim | ```bash
    sudo vi /usr/local/bin/autossh-sunshine-start
    ```}
}
```

Copy the below script to that location and replace `{USERNAME}` wherever it occurs with the username you created
the SSH public key for in the previous section.

```bash
#!/bin/bash
ssh -i /home/{USERNAME}/.ssh/id_rsa {USERNAME}@localhost
"/home/{USERNAME}/scripts/sunshine.sh"
```

> @attention{This script uses the location of the script in Eric Dong's guide. If you have not set this up already,
> follow the instructions [here](https://docs.lizardbyte.dev/projects/sunshine/en/latest/about/guides/linux/headless_ssh.html#stream-launcher-script)}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
@attention{This script uses the location of the script in [Stream Launcher Script](#stream-launcher-script). Please complete that section before continuing.}
```

> once you've created the script, be sure to make it executable by running:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you've created the script, be sure to make it executable by running:
```

```bash
sudo chmod +x /usr/local/bin/autossh-sunshine-start
```

###### Create the autossh systemd service file

> @tabs{
>   @tab{nano | ```bash
>     sudo nano /etc/systemd/system/autossh-sunshine.service
>     ```}
>   @tab{vim | ```bash
>     sudo vi /etc/systemd/system/autossh-sunshine.service
>     ```}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
@tabs{
  @tab{nano | ```bash
    sudo nano /etc/systemd/system/autossh-sunshine.service
    ```}
  @tab{vim | ```bash
    sudo vi /etc/systemd/system/autossh-sunshine.service
    ```}
}
```

Copy and paste the below systemd file and save it to the location in the commands above.

```
[Unit]  
Description=Start sunshine over an localhost SSH connection on boot
Requires=sshd.service
After=sshd.service

[Service]
ExecStartPre=/bin/sleep 5
ExecStart=/usr/local/bin/autossh-sunshine-start
Restart=on-failure
RestartSec=5s

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

> make sure to make it executable, and enable the service when you're done.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make it executable, and enable the service when you're done.
```

```bash
sudo chmod +x /etc/systemd/system/autossh-sunshine.service
sudo systemctl start autossh-sunshine
sudo systemctl enable autossh-sunshine
```

> This point is a good time for a sanity check, so restart your PC and try to sign in to your desktop via moonlight.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This point is a good time for a sanity check, so restart your PC and try to sign in to your desktop via Moonlight.
```

You should be able to access the login screen, enter your credentials, and control the user session. At this point
you'll notice the reason for the next section as your audio will be non-functional and you won't see any tray icon

> for sunshine. If you don't care about audio (and maybe a couple other bugs you might encounter from time to time due

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for Sunshine. If you don't care about audio (and maybe a couple other bugs you might encounter from time to time due
```

to the permissions difference between an SSH session and the desktop session), you can consider yourself finished at
this point!

@note{You might also notice some issues if you have multiple monitors setup (including the dummy plug), like the mouse
cursor not being on the right screen for you to login. We will address this in the last step of this guide it requires
messing with some configs for SDDM.}

##### Getting the audio working

To get the audio (and tray icon, etc...) working we will create a systemd user service, that will start on a graphical
login, kill the autossh-sunshine system service, and start sunshine just like the standard sunshine service.
This service will also need to call the autossh-sunshine system service before it is stopped as the user service will
be killed when we log out of the graphical session, so we want to make sure we restart that SSH service so we don't
lose the ability to log back in if we need to.

> @tabs{
>   @tab{nano | ```bash
>     sudo nano /usr/lib/systemd/user/sunshine-after-login.service
>     ```}
>   @tab{vim | ```bash
>     sudo vi /usr/lib/systemd/user/sunshine-after-login.service
>     ```}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
@tabs{
  @tab{nano | ```bash
    sudo nano /usr/lib/systemd/user/sunshine-after-login.service
    ```}
  @tab{vim | ```bash
    sudo vi /usr/lib/systemd/user/sunshine-after-login.service
    ```}
}
```

Once again, copy the below service file into your text editor at the location above.

```
[Unit]  
Description=Start sunshine with the permissions of the graphical desktop session
StartLimitIntervalSec=500
StartLimitBurst=5

[Service]  
# Avoid starting Sunshine before the desktop is fully initialized.
ExecStartPre=/usr/bin/pkill sunshine
ExecStartPre=/bin/sleep 5
ExecStart=/usr/bin/sunshine
ExecStopPost=/usr/bin/systemctl start autossh-sunshine

Restart=on-failure
RestartSec=5s

[Install]
WantedBy=xdg-desktop-autostart.target
```

> and be sure to make it executable, and enable it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make it executable, and enable it.

```

``` bash
sudo chmod +x /usr/lib/systemd/user/sunshine-after-login.service
systemctl --user enable sunshine-after-login
```

> ###### Polkit Rules for Sunshine User Service

Reviewer: ```suggestion

###### Polkit Rules for Sunshine User Service
```

Since this is being run with the permissions of the graphical session, we need to make a polkit modification to allow
it to call the system service autossh-sunshine when this user service is stopped, without prompting us for a password.

> @tabs{
>   @tab{nano | ```bash
>     sudo nano /etc/polkit-1/rules.d/sunshine.rules
>     ```}
>   @tab{vim | ```bash
>     sudo vi /etc/polkit-1/rules.d/sunshine.rules
>     ```}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
@tabs{
  @tab{nano | ```bash
    sudo nano /etc/polkit-1/rules.d/sunshine.rules
    ```}
  @tab{vim | ```bash
    sudo vi /etc/polkit-1/rules.d/sunshine.rules
    ```}
}
```

before saving the file, and if the resulting changes would break sudo on your system, it will prompt you to fix them.
Modifying the file with nano or vim directly does not give you this sanity check and introduces the possibility of
losing sudo access to your machine. Tread carefully, and make a backup.}

As always, copy and paste the below into your user's sudoers.d configuration. Replace {USERNAME} with your username,
and {HOSTNAME} with the name of your computer.

```
{USERNAME} {HOSTNAME} = (root) NOPASSWD: /home/{USERNAME}/scripts/sunshine-setup.sh
{USERNAME} {HOSTNAME} = (root) NOPASSWD: /bin/sunshine
{USERNAME} {HOSTNAME} = (root) NOPASSWD: /usr/bin/systemctl start autossh-sunshine
{USERNAME} {HOSTNAME} = (root) NOPASSWD: /usr/bin/systemctl --user start sunshine-after-login
# The below is optional, but will allow us to send trigger a shutdown with a sunshine prep command, if desired.
{USERNAME} {HOSTNAME} = (root) NOPASSWD: /usr/sbin/shutdown
```

Once again, restart your computer and do a quick test. Make sure you can connect to the PC to login and enter your
credentials. You should be booted out of the system, and then can reconnect a few seconds later to the logged-in

> desktop session. You should see a tray icon for sunshine, and the sound should be working (or you may need to manually

Reviewer: ```suggestion
desktop session. You should see a tray icon for Sunshine, and the sound should be working (or you may need to manually
```

select the sunshine-sink at least the first time).

If you don't have multiple monitors, at this point you can consider yourself done!

##### Configuring the login screen layout for multiple monitors

> This is not sunshine-specific, but is a frequent problem I had setting up sunshine and thought it pertinent to add to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is not sunshine-specific, but is a frequent problem I had setting up Sunshine and thought it pertinent to add to
```

the guide. If you are using multiple monitors (even a single monitor with a dummy plug may have this problem) you
might notice the streamed login screen has one or more of the following problems:

1. The text is way too small to see (caused by a too-high resolution)
2. The mouse cursor is off on some other screen (caused by not mirroring the displays)
3. there are multiple login screens overlapping each other (caused by differing resolutions, and trying to mirror
the display).

###### Log in to an X11 Session

This can be fixed, by modifying some scripts called by SDDM on boot. To start though, we need to make sure we're
logged into an x11 session, not wayland or the terminal. As the wayland session will give us incorrect information,
and the terminal will give us no information since no graphical environment exists. SDDM initially starts an x11
session to display the login screen so we need to use xorg commands to change the display configuration.

> To do this, log out of your desktop session on the sunshine host, and somewhere on the lower left of your screen

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To do this, log out of your desktop session on the Sunshine host, and somewhere on the lower left of your screen
```

(depending on your SDDM theme) there will be some text that on Debian 12 KDE Plasma defaults to saying
`Session: Plasma (Wayland)`. Select this and choose `Plasma (X11)` from the drop down menu and sign in.

###### Find your monitor identifiers.

Open a terminal and run:

```bash
xrandr | grep -w connected
```

This will require some more sleuthing on your part. Different PC hardware, and different monitors / connectors,
display the names differently. Some start at 0, some start 1. Some spell out "DisplayPort" some, say "DP". You will
need to modify all of the commands from here on out based on the output of the above command. I will use the output I
receive below as the example for the rest of this guide.

```bash

> rodent@midwest:~$ xrandr | grep -w connected  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

DisplayPort-0 connected (normal left inverted right x axis y axis)  
DisplayPort-1 connected (normal left inverted right x axis y axis)
DisplayPort-2 connected (normal left inverted right x axis y axis)
HDMI-A-0 connected primary 1920x1080+0+0 (normal left inverted right x axis y axis) 800mm x 450mm
```

@warning{If I instead run this command on wayland, I get the following useless output. Hence the need to sign in to
x11 session.
```bash

> rodent@midwest:~$ xrandr | grep -w connected

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

XWAYLAND0 connected 2592x1458+6031+0 (normal left inverted right x axis y axis) 600mm x 340mm
XWAYLAND1 connected 2592x1458+0+0 (normal left inverted right x axis y axis) 480mm x 270mm
XWAYLAND2 connected primary 3440x1440+2592+0 (normal left inverted right x axis y axis) 800mm x 330mm
XWAYLAND3 connected 2592x1458+0+0 (normal left inverted right x axis y axis) 1440mm x 810mm

```
}

> From this, you can see that my monitors are named the following

Reviewer: ```suggestion

From this, you can see that my monitors are named the following
```

DisplayPort-1
DisplayPort-2
HDMI-A-0

@tip{If you have a label maker, now would be a good time to unplug some cables, determine where they are on your
system, and label the outputs on your graphics card to ease changing your setup in the future.}

In my setup, after moving some inputs I changed my system so that these cables correspond to the below monitors

| Display Name  | Monitor                     |
| ------------- | --------------------------- |
| DisplayPort-0 | rightmost 1080p display     |
| DisplayPort-1 | leftmost 1080p display      |
| DisplayPort-2 | middle 3440x1440 display    |
| HDMI-A-0      | 4k Roku TV (and dummy plug) |

###### Modify the SDDM startup script
For my purposes, I would prefer to have the Roku TV (which doubles as my always-on dummy plug) to always display a
1080p screen on login (this can be changed automatically after login). And I would like to retain the ability to use
my leftmost monitor to login to my physical desktop, but I'd like to disable my primary and rightmost displays.

To do this, we need to modify the SDDM startup script to shut off DisplayPort-2 and DisplayPort-3, set HDMI-A-0 to
1080p and mirror it with DisplayPort-1.

> @tabs{
>   @tab{nano | ```bash
>     sudo nano /usr/share/sddm/scripts/Xsetup
>     ```}
>   @tab{vim | ```bash
>     sudo vi /usr/share/sddm/scripts/Xsetup
>     ```}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
@tabs{
  @tab{nano | ```bash
    sudo nano /usr/share/sddm/scripts/Xsetup
    ```}
  @tab{vim | ```bash
    sudo vi /usr/share/sddm/scripts/Xsetup
    ```}
}
```

First, find the name of your ethernet interface.

```bash
ip link show
```

When I run this command, these are the results I receive
```
1: lo: <LOOPBACK,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 65536 qdisc noqueue state UNKNOWN mode DEFAULT group default qlen 1000  
   link/loopback 00:00:00:00:00:00 brd 00:00:00:00:00:00  
2: enp117s0: <BROADCAST,MULTICAST,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 1500 qdisc fq_codel state UP mode DEFAULT group default qlen 1000  
   link/ether 9c:6b:00:59:33:c1 brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff
```

We can ignore the loopback interface, and I can see my ethernet interface is called `enp117s0`. You might see
wireless interfaces here as well but they can also be ignored.

@note{If your PC is only connected via wifi, it is still technically possible to get this working, but it is outside
the scope of this guide and requires more networking knowledge and a wifi chip that supports WoL. If this is your
first foray into linux, I'd recommend just getting a cable.}

Now I can install ethtool and modify my interface to allow Wake on LAN. For your use, replace `enp117s0` with whatever
the name of your ethernet interface is from the command `ip link show`

> ``` bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

attacks, and protects you against a rogue machine pretending to be your SSH server and stealing your password.}

The next step is optional, but if you do not plan on connecting to your computer remotely via ssh and only have
installed SSH for the purposes of using Sunshine, it's a good idea to disable listening for remote SSH connections.
Do this by changing the following lines near the top of your sshd config:

```
#ListenAddress 0.0.0.0  
#ListenAddress ::
```

To the following:

```
ListenAddress 127.0.0.1
ListenAddress ::1
```

This will only allow SSH connections coming from your computer itself.

@tip{on some distributions, the maintainers have added some files in `/etc/ssh/sshd_config.d/` which is pulled into
your sshd_config. These modifications can conflict with what we've just done. If you have any files in
`/etc/ssh/sshd_config.d/`, make sure they do not include any of the changes we've just made or you will experience
problems.}

###### Quick Test and Accept Host Authenticity.

Next, let's reboot the machine and try to connect! Accept any warnings about the unidentified
host at this time, you'll never see those appear again unless something changes with your setup.

> ``` bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

login, kill the autossh-sunshine system service, and start sunshine just like the standard sunshine service.
This service will also need to call the autossh-sunshine system service before it is stopped as the user service will
be killed when we log out of the graphical session, so we want to make sure we restart that SSH service so we don't
lose the ability to log back in if we need to.

@tabs{
  @tab{nano | ```bash
    sudo nano /usr/lib/systemd/user/sunshine-after-login.service
    ```}
  @tab{vim | ```bash
    sudo vi /usr/lib/systemd/user/sunshine-after-login.service
    ```}
}

Once again, copy the below service file into your text editor at the location above.

```
[Unit]  
Description=Start sunshine with the permissions of the graphical desktop session
StartLimitIntervalSec=500
StartLimitBurst=5

[Service]  
# Avoid starting Sunshine before the desktop is fully initialized.
ExecStartPre=/usr/bin/pkill sunshine
ExecStartPre=/bin/sleep 5
ExecStart=/usr/bin/sunshine
ExecStopPost=/usr/bin/systemctl start autossh-sunshine

Restart=on-failure
RestartSec=5s

[Install]
WantedBy=xdg-desktop-autostart.target
```

Make it executable, and enable it.

> ``` bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

sudo chmod +x /usr/lib/systemd/user/sunshine-after-login.service
systemctl --user enable sunshine-after-login
```

###### Polkit Rules for Sunshine User Service

Since this is being run with the permissions of the graphical session, we need to make a polkit modification to allow
it to call the system service autossh-sunshine when this user service is stopped, without prompting us for a password.

@tabs{
  @tab{nano | ```bash
    sudo nano /etc/polkit-1/rules.d/sunshine.rules
    ```}
  @tab{vim | ```bash
    sudo vi /etc/polkit-1/rules.d/sunshine.rules
    ```}
}

Once again, copy the below to the .rules file in your text editor.

```
polkit.addRule(function(action, subject) {  
   if (action.id == "org.freedesktop.systemd1.manage-units" &&  
       action.lookup("unit") == "autossh-tunnel.service")  
   {  
       return polkit.Result.YES;  
   }  
})

> ```

Author: This is one of the errors I'll resolve in a second. The name of the autossh service is what's on my local machine but I didn't think was descriptive enough for the guide. I'll change it in another commit, just mentioning it here so you're aware.

display the names differently. Some start at 0, some start 1. Some spell out "DisplayPort" some, say "DP". You will
need to modify all of the commands from here on out based on the output of the above command. I will use the output I
receive below as the example for the rest of this guide.

```bash
DisplayPort-0 connected (normal left inverted right x axis y axis)  
DisplayPort-1 connected (normal left inverted right x axis y axis)
DisplayPort-2 connected (normal left inverted right x axis y axis)
HDMI-A-0 connected primary 1920x1080+0+0 (normal left inverted right x axis y axis) 800mm x 450mm
```

@warning{If I instead run this command on wayland, I get the following useless output. Hence the need to sign in to
x11 session.
```bash
XWAYLAND0 connected 2592x1458+6031+0 (normal left inverted right x axis y axis) 600mm x 340mm
XWAYLAND1 connected 2592x1458+0+0 (normal left inverted right x axis y axis) 480mm x 270mm
XWAYLAND2 connected primary 3440x1440+2592+0 (normal left inverted right x axis y axis) 800mm x 330mm
XWAYLAND3 connected 2592x1458+0+0 (normal left inverted right x axis y axis) 1440mm x 810mm

> 

Author: Was there something else you were thinking around here or is this suggestion just a glitch?

streamed via Moonlight, but is also used as a standard desktop. *However* I do not know the implications of having an
always running SSH client to the localhost on the same machine. It may be possible for someone with significant
knowledge and physical access to the machine to compromise your user account due to this always-running SSH session.
However, that's better than just having the desktop always available, or opening up SSH even just your LAN since this
guide specifically disables non-localhost connections, so I believe this is safer to use than auto-login for general
users. As always, your [threat model](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Threat_model) may vary.}

#### Prerequisites
In [Remote SSH Headless Setup](#remote-ssh-headless-setup) complete the following sections.

1. [Static IP Setup](#static-ip-setup)
2. [SSH Server Setup](#ssh-server-setup)
3. [Virtual Display Setup](#virtual-display-setup)
4. [Uinput Permissions Workaround](#uinput-permissions-workaround)
5. [Stream Launcher Script](#stream-launcher-script)

@note{On a default Debian 12 install using KDE Plasma, you are using the Simple Desktop Display Manager (SDDM).

> Even if you are logging in to a wayland session, SDDM by default starts with an xorg session, so this script
> does not need to be modified if you primarily use a wayland session (the default) when you login.}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Even if you are logging in to a Wayland session, SDDM by default starts with an xorg session, so this script
does not need to be modified if you primarily use a Wayland session (the default) when you login.}
```

#### Instructions

##### Enable Wake on LAN

Wake on LAN (WoL) will allow you to send a magic packet to turn your PC on remotely. This is handled automatically by
Moonlight's "send wake on lan" option in the app but you do need to enable it on your host machine first. The
[instructions on the debian.org](https://wiki.debian.org/WakeOnLan#Enabling_WOL) site are a little hard to parse, so
I've simplified them below.

> @note{this may not work on all deb based distributions. If you know of a better way for POP OS, Ubuntu, or another

Reviewer: ```suggestion
@note{This may not work on all deb based distributions. If you know of a better way for POP OS, Ubuntu, or another
```

your ``sshd_config``. These modifications can conflict with what we've just done. If you have any files in
``/etc/ssh/sshd_config.d/``, make sure they do not include any of the changes we've just made or you will experience
problems. If they do, you can comment out those lines by placing a ``#`` at their beginning, or delete the files safely
if you don't plan to use SSH for anything other than Sunshine.}

###### Quick Test and Accept Host Authenticity.

Next, let's reboot the machine and try to connect! Accept any warnings about the unidentified host at this time,
you'll never see those appear again unless something changes with your setup.

```bash
ssh $(whoami)@localhost
```

You should see a new login prompt for the machine you're already on, and when you type `exit` you should just see

```bash
logout
Connection to localhost closed.
```

##### Run sunshine-setup on boot over SSH

Thanks to [this comment from Gavin Haynes on Unix Stack exchange](https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/669389/how-do-i-get-an-ssh-command-to-run-on-boot/669476#669476),
we can establish an SSH connection on boot to run the sunshine-setup script via a systemd service.

> ###### Disable the sunshine services included from the default installation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
###### Disable default Sunshine services
```

A slightly shorter title

> These service files are sometimes overwritten when updating sunshine with the .deb.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These service files are sometimes overwritten when updating Sunshine with the .deb.
```

this point!

@note{You might also notice some issues if you have multiple monitors setup (including the dummy plug), like the mouse
cursor not being on the right screen for you to login. We will address this in the last step of this guide. It requires
messing with some configs for SDDM.}

##### Getting the audio working

To get the audio (and tray icon, etc...) working we will create a systemd user service, that will start on a graphical
login, kill the autossh-sunshine system service, and start Sunshine just like the standard Sunshine service.
This service will also need to call the autossh-sunshine system service before it is stopped as the user service will
be killed when we log out of the graphical session, so we want to make sure we restart that SSH service so we don't
lose the ability to log back in if we need to.

@tabs{
  @tab{nano | ```bash
    sudo nano /usr/lib/systemd/user/sunshine-after-login.service
    ```}
  @tab{vim | ```bash
    sudo vi /usr/lib/systemd/user/sunshine-after-login.service
    ```}
}

Once again, copy the below service file into your text editor at the location above.

```
[Unit]  

> Description=Start sunshine with the permissions of the graphical desktop session

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description=Start Sunshine with the permissions of the graphical desktop session
```

ExecStartPre=/usr/bin/pkill sunshine
ExecStartPre=/bin/sleep 5
ExecStart=/usr/bin/sunshine
ExecStopPost=/usr/bin/systemctl start autossh-sunshine

Restart=on-failure
RestartSec=5s

[Install]
WantedBy=xdg-desktop-autostart.target
```

Make it executable, and enable it.

```bash
sudo chmod +x /usr/lib/systemd/user/sunshine-after-login.service
systemctl --user enable sunshine-after-login
```

###### Polkit Rules for Sunshine User Service

Since this is being run with the permissions of the graphical session, we need to make a polkit modification to allow
it to call the system service autossh-sunshine when this user service is stopped, without prompting us for a password.

@tabs{
  @tab{nano | ```bash
    sudo nano /etc/polkit-1/rules.d/sunshine.rules
    ```}
  @tab{vim | ```bash
    sudo vi /etc/polkit-1/rules.d/sunshine.rules
    ```}
}

Once again, copy the below to the .rules file in your text editor.

```js
polkit.addRule(function(action, subject) {  
   if (action.id == "org.freedesktop.systemd1.manage-units" &&  
       action.lookup("unit") == "autossh-sunshine.service")  
   {  
       return polkit.Result.YES;  
   }  
})
```

> ###### Modifications to Sudoers.d files

Reviewer: ```suggestion
###### Modifications to sudoers.d files
```

This is lowercase everywhere else

credentials. You should be booted out of the system, and then can reconnect a few seconds later to the logged-in
desktop session. You should see a tray icon for Sunshine, and the sound should be working (or you may need to manually
select the sunshine-sink at least the first time).

If you don't have multiple monitors, at this point you can consider yourself done!

##### Configuring the login screen layout for multiple monitors

This is not Sunshine specific, but is a frequent problem I had setting up Sunshine and thought it pertinent to add to
the guide. If you are using multiple monitors (even a single monitor with a dummy plug may have this problem) you
might notice the streamed login screen has one or more of the following problems:

1. The text is way too small to see (caused by a too-high resolution)
2. The mouse cursor is off on some other screen (caused by not mirroring the displays)
3. There are multiple login screens overlapping each other (caused by differing resolutions, and trying to mirror
the display).

###### Log in to an X11 Session

This can be fixed, by modifying some scripts called by SDDM on boot. To start though, we need to make sure we're

> logged into an x11 session, not wayland or the terminal. As the wayland session will give us incorrect information,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
logged into an x11 session, not Wayland or the terminal. As the Wayland session will give us incorrect information,
```

To do this, log out of your desktop session on the Sunshine host, and somewhere on the lower left of your screen
(depending on your SDDM theme) there will be some text that on Debian 12 KDE Plasma defaults to saying
`Session: Plasma (Wayland)`. Select this and choose `Plasma (X11)` from the drop down menu and sign in.

###### Find your monitor identifiers.

Open a terminal and run:

```bash
xrandr | grep -w connected
```

This will require some more sleuthing on your part. Different PC hardware, and different monitors / connectors,
display the names differently. Some start at 0, some start 1. Some spell out "DisplayPort" some, say "DP". You will
need to modify all of the commands from here on out based on the output of the above command. I will use the output I
receive below as the example for the rest of this guide.

```bash
DisplayPort-0 connected (normal left inverted right x axis y axis)  
DisplayPort-1 connected (normal left inverted right x axis y axis)
DisplayPort-2 connected (normal left inverted right x axis y axis)
HDMI-A-0 connected primary 1920x1080+0+0 (normal left inverted right x axis y axis) 800mm x 450mm
```

> @note{If I instead run this command on wayland, I get the following useless output. Hence the need to sign in to an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
@note{If I instead run this command on Wayland, I get the following useless output. Hence the need to sign in to an
```
